 # Writing a Password Program 
 Author : Jacqueline Comrie 
 Course : Introduction to Graphics Programming   
 
  
  	Analysis 
 Most websites require you to verify your credentials before gaining full access to view certain confidential data that can be used to inflict harm on persons or their company if the data get into the hands of unscrupulous people. Some of the crimes that people commit when they have access to unauthorized data is: Identity theft & Scamming which is just a few. Hence why it is vital for companies to protect their data, their clients’ data and for people to protect their own data and that is where passwords come in. Only the persons who create their passwords have access to it unless they give it out to someone, or someone snoops around and find it. In order for a website to prompt you to enter your password and credentials you their first have to be a program created that prompts the user to enter their information and verify it based on the information that was given when they were directed to creating an account. Passwords are important because they aid in providing security and protects against unauthorized users having access to information, they are not permitted to. 
What users see on their end is totally different from what coders have to endure to ensure that the programs they create run smoothly. In writing this program there was a few problems. First was with the poor internet service which hindered the process especially when downloading the software to aid in writing the code that felt it was going to take forever. Find the right open-source IDE and compiler was a bit of an issue but Code blocks worked and is more user friendly than Visual Studio, so I decided to stick to the one that I was more comfortable with which is code blocks. While writing the program to check whether a string is a valid password. There was problems which included: ensuring that the password have at least eight characters, consists of only letters and digits, contain at least two digits, in order for the right information to be inputted “cin” had to be in the right place and “cout” to ensure that the user gets the output which is the statement that is in the code. Also ensuring the right statement is used for the program to run properly, not have the user confused and prompts 
the user to enter the information which is their password and credentials as well as to ensure that the right code is entered to show the user whether their information is valid or invalid.


 
	Design

	In order to solve the problem and write a program that runs properly. Their had to be a draft set up that was done on a note pad to know what exactly to ask the user for, how strong to make the password and the structure that is accepted for a good string.  
As well as knowing exactly where to put “cout” and “cin” in to get the right input and out put for the program. Inserting the parenthesizes at the right places. Ensuring that that the I put the right symbol at the end of the line to indicate that that is where the statement for that line ends.  In order for the password to be strong it is recommended that it is no less than eight characters and that includes only letter and at least two digits. So that also had to be included in the code. While debugging the program there was an issue with the GNU compiler so I had to go into settings, click on compiler, go to Global Complier settings, click on Toolchain executable find where the MinGW was stored copy and paste the correct location in order for the Debugger to work. After getting the debugger to work there was another error when all the code was entered, and I clicked on “build and run” there was an error in line 21 because the “endl:” was not at the end. 
  
   
   Testing 
  	In testing the program I had to ensure that the debugger was working properly to ensure that the program run smoothly as it should by reducing or eliminating bugs if they are present. In order to do that I had to go into settings and compiler to modify and put the right location for the MinGW file in order for the debugger to work. Then I scanned through the program made a couple modifications and clicked on build. Then clicked build and run which prompt like it would do for the user to enter “username” and “password”.


 
